PR for SRVCOM 2909: Update the Serverless 1.32 release notes (#72487)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-rn-1-32-0.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies
//
// * about/serverless-release-notes.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="serverless-rn-1-32-0_{context}"]
= Red Hat {ServerlessProductName} 1.32

{ServerlessProductName} 1.32 is now available. New features, updates, and known issues that pertain to {ServerlessProductName} on {ocp-product-title} are included in the following notes.

[id="new-features-1-32-0_{context}"]
== New features

* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative Serving 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative Eventing 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Kourier 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative (`kn`) CLI 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative for Apache Kafka 1.11.

> * The `kn func` CLI plug-in now uses `func` 1.11.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `kn func` CLI plug-in now uses `func` 1.13.
```

[id="new-features-1-32-0_{context}"]
== New features

* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative Serving 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative Eventing 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Kourier 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative (`kn`) CLI 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative for Apache Kafka 1.11.
* The `kn func` CLI plug-in now uses `func` 1.13.

* Serverless Logic, which is available as a Technology Preview (TP) feature, has been updated.
+
See link:https://openshift-knative.github.io/docs/docs/latest/serverless-logic/about.html[the Serverless Logic documentation] for usage instructions.

* You can configure the {FunctionsProductName} readiness and liveness probe settings for the user-container and the queue-proxy container.

* {FunctionsProductName} now supports {pipelines-shortname} versions `1.10` and `1.11`. The older versions of {pipelines-shortname} are no longer compatible with {FunctionsProductName}. 

* {FunctionsProductName} now supports Go function container and it is now available as a Technology Preview (TP) feature.

> * The Knative TLS authentication feature for internal traffic is now depricated. The functionality with the `internal-encryption` configuration flag is no longer available.

Author: Thank you for capturing this. Made the changes

* The secret filtering is enabled by default on the {ServerlessOperatorName} side. An environment variable, `ENABLE_SECRET_INFORMER_FILTERING_BY_CERT_UID=true`, is added by default to the `net-istio` and `net-kourier` controller pods.

* The `domain-mapping` and `domain-mapping-webhook` deployments functionality in the `knative-serving` namespace is now removed.

* If you have set `spec.config.domain` in the KnativeServing Custom Resource (CR), the default external domain will no longer auto-populate the config-domain ConfigMap in the `knative-serving` namespace. You will now need to configure it manually to ensure accurate domain settings. 

> * You can now use the gRPC health probe for `net-kourier` deployments. The `net-kourier-controller` now uses a standard Kubernetes gRPC health probe for both readiness and liveness, replacing it's previous use of exec and custom commands. This simplifies the process and aligns it with Kubernetes standards. Additionally, the timeoutSeconds value has been adjusted from 100 milliseconds to 1 second to ensure more reliable probe responses.

Author: Done!

* The new trigger filters feature is now available as a Technology Preview. The new trigger filters are now enabled by default. It allows users to specify a set of filter expressions, where each expression evaluates to either true or false for each event.

* Knative Eventing now offers support for data in transit encryption (Eventing TLS) as a developer preview. You can configure Knative Eventing components to encrypt data in-transit by exposing HTTPS addresses and accepting user-provided CA trust bundles. 

* You can now use the Custom Metrics Autoscaler (KEDA) operator to autoscale Knative Eventing sources for Apache Kafka (KafkaSource), both up and down. This functionality is available as a developer preview, offering enhanced scalability and efficiency for Kafka-based event sources within Knative Eventing.

* You can now explore the Knative Eventing monitoring dashboards directly within the *Observe* tab of the developer view in the OpenShift Developer Console. 

> * The support for EventTypes `v1beta1` in Knative shipped is deprecated in {ServerlessProductName} 1.32. The new Knative CLI does not function with previous versions of Serverless, as it is limited only to the EventTypes resource, significantly narrowing its functionality. In {ServerlessProductName} 1.32, the Knative CLI utilizes the EventType v1beta2 API to facilitate the new reference model. The `kn` is not backward compatible with the EventType API v1beta1 in previous releases, specifically limited to the `kn eventtypes` sub-commands group. Therefore, it is recommended to use a matching `kn` version for the best user experience.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The support for EventTypes `v1beta1` in Knative shipped is deprecated in {ServerlessProductName} 1.32. In {ServerlessProductName} 1.32, the Knative CLI utilizes the EventType v1beta2 API to facilitate the new reference model. The `kn` is not backward compatible with the EventType API v1beta1 in previous releases, specifically limited to the `kn eventtypes` sub-commands group. Therefore, it is recommended to use a matching `kn` version for the best user experience.  
```
@kaldesai 

I'd drop this sentence. I feel like it might create a bit of confusion for unfamiliar reader. It's better explained and reiterated in the following ones.

[id="fixed-issues-1-32-0_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

* The default CPU limit is now increased for `3scale-kourier-gateways` from `500m` to `1`. When more than 500 Knative Service instances are created, it could lead to readiness and liveness probe failures in the 3scale-kourier-gateways pod due to CPU resource exhaustion. This adjustment aims to mitigate such failures and ensure smoother operation even under heavy loads.

[id="known-issues-1-32-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

* Due to different mountpoint permissions, direct upload on a cluster build is not working on `ppc64le` and `s390x`.

* Building and deploying a function using Podman version 4.6 fails with the `invalid pull policy "1"` error.
+

> To work around this issue, use Podman version 4.5.

Author: Sure, I am adding this in the release notes

// Module included in the following assemblies
//
// * about/serverless-release-notes.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="serverless-rn-1-32-0_{context}"]
= Red Hat {ServerlessProductName} 1.32

{ServerlessProductName} 1.32 is now available. New features, updates, and known issues that pertain to {ServerlessProductName} on {ocp-product-title} are included in the following notes.

[id="new-features-1-32-0_{context}"]
== New features

* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative Serving 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative Eventing 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Kourier 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative (`kn`) CLI 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative for Apache Kafka 1.11.
* The `kn func` CLI plug-in now uses `func` 1.13.

* Serverless Logic, which is available as a Technology Preview (TP) feature, has been updated.
+
See link:https://openshift-knative.github.io/docs/docs/latest/serverless-logic/about.html[the Serverless Logic documentation] for usage instructions.

* You can configure the {FunctionsProductName} readiness and liveness probe settings for the user-container and the queue-proxy container.

> * {FunctionsProductName} now supports {pipelines-shortname} versions `1.10` and `1.11`. The older versions of {pipelines-shortname} are no longer compatible with {FunctionsProductName}. 

Reviewer 2: Quick note: We tested Functions on cluster against 1.11, 1.12, 1.13 and 1.14 (latest) version of Pipelines. I would probably not mention 1.10 version here.

Reviewer 2: Correction form above comment: tested as well against 1.10. So all version from 1.10 till 1.14 (latest) are supported.

Author: Thank you! I have made the changes!

* {FunctionsProductName} now supports Go function container and it is now available as a Technology Preview (TP) feature.

> * The Knative TLS authentication feature for internal traffic is now deprecated. The functionality with the `internal-encryption` configuration flag is no longer available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The Knative Serving TLS encryption feature for internal traffic is now deprecated. The functionality with the `internal-encryption` configuration flag is no longer available.
```

Reviewer 3: @skonto should we call out that it's coming back eventually ?

Author: Updated the sentence.

* The secret filtering is enabled by default on the {ServerlessOperatorName} side. An environment variable, `ENABLE_SECRET_INFORMER_FILTERING_BY_CERT_UID=true`, is added by default to the `net-istio` and `net-kourier` controller pods.

> * The `domain-mapping` and `domain-mapping-webhook` deployments functionality in the `knative-serving` namespace is now removed.

Reviewer 4: Same here, they are not just removed, they were integrated with Serving Webhook and Serving Controller.

Author: Done! Added!

* If you have set `spec.config.domain` in the KnativeServing Custom Resource (CR), the default external domain will no longer auto-populate the config-domain ConfigMap in the `knative-serving` namespace. You will now need to configure it manually to ensure accurate domain settings. 

* You can now use the gRPC health probe for `net-kourier` deployments. The `net-kourier-controller` now uses a standard Kubernetes gRPC health probe for both readiness and liveness, replacing its previous use of exec and custom commands. This simplifies the process and aligns it with Kubernetes standards. Additionally, the timeoutSeconds value has been adjusted from 100 milliseconds to 1 second to ensure more reliable probe responses.

* The new trigger filters feature is now available as a Technology Preview. The new trigger filters are now enabled by default. It allows users to specify a set of filter expressions, where each expression evaluates to either true or false for each event.

> * Knative Eventing now offers support for data in transit encryption (Eventing TLS) as a developer preview. You can configure Knative Eventing components to encrypt data in-transit by exposing HTTPS addresses and accepting user-provided CA trust bundles. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Knative Eventing now offers support for data in transit encryption (Eventing TLS) as a developer preview. You can configure Knative Eventing components to expose HTTPS addresses as well as add user-provided CA trust bundles to clients. 
```

Reviewer 3: The sentence `encrypt data in-transit by exposing HTTPS` doesn't align well

Author: Okay, noted!

* You can now use the Custom Metrics Autoscaler (KEDA) operator to autoscale Knative Eventing sources for Apache Kafka (KafkaSource), both up and down. This functionality is available as a developer preview, offering enhanced scalability and efficiency for Kafka-based event sources within Knative Eventing.

* You can now explore the Knative Eventing monitoring dashboards directly within the *Observe* tab of the developer view in the OpenShift Developer Console. 

> * The support for EventTypes `v1beta1` in Knative shipped is deprecated in {ServerlessProductName} 1.32. In {ServerlessProductName} 1.32, the Knative CLI utilizes the EventType v1beta2 API to facilitate the new reference model. The `kn` is not backward compatible with the EventType API v1beta1 in previous releases, specifically limited to the `kn eventtypes` sub-commands group. Therefore, it is recommended to use a matching `kn` version for the best user experience.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The support for EventTypes `v1beta1` in Knative shipped is deprecated in {ServerlessProductName} 1.32. In {ServerlessProductName} 1.32, the Knative CLI utilizes the EventType `v1beta2` API to facilitate the new reference model. The `kn` is not backward compatible with the EventType API v1beta1 in previous releases, specifically limited to the `kn eventtypes` sub-commands group. Therefore, it is recommended to use a matching `kn` version for the best user experience.  
```

Added backtick formatting to `v1beta2`.

Author: Done!

> * {ServerlessProductName} now supports custom CA bundle injection for deployments and stateful sets. Additionally, it stores the `SSL_CERT_DIR` environment variable if it was not provided previously. For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/networking/configuring-a-custom-pki.html#certificate-injection-using-operators_configuring-a-custom-pki[Configuring a custom PKI].

Reviewer 3: I'd place the last one `{ServerlessProductName} now supports custom CA bundle injection ...` after/closer to `Knative Eventing now offers support for data in transit encryption`

Author: Done!

> * {ServerlessProductName} now supports custom CA bundle injection for deployments and stateful sets. Additionally, it stores the `SSL_CERT_DIR` environment variable if it was not provided previously. For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/networking/configuring-a-custom-pki.html#certificate-injection-using-operators_configuring-a-custom-pki[Configuring a custom PKI].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* {ServerlessProductName} now supports custom OpenShift CA bundle injection for system components. For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/networking/configuring-a-custom-pki.html#certificate-injection-using-operators_configuring-a-custom-pki[Configuring a custom PKI].
```

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't the link to OCP docs be a relative reference vs the current absolute one?

Reviewer 5: @pierDipi We've separated the Serverless docs from the OCP ones, so now we can only do absolute references to OCP docs.

// Module included in the following assemblies
//
// * about/serverless-release-notes.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="serverless-rn-1-32-0_{context}"]
= Red Hat {ServerlessProductName} 1.32

{ServerlessProductName} 1.32 is now available. New features, updates, and known issues that pertain to {ServerlessProductName} on {ocp-product-title} are included in the following notes.

[id="new-features-1-32-0_{context}"]
== New features

* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative Serving 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative Eventing 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Kourier 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative (`kn`) CLI 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative for Apache Kafka 1.11.

> * The `kn func` CLI plug-in now uses `func` 1.13.

Author: Done!

* Serverless Logic, which is available as a Technology Preview (TP) feature, has been updated.
+
See link:https://openshift-knative.github.io/docs/docs/latest/serverless-logic/about.html[the Serverless Logic documentation] for usage instructions.

> * You can configure the {FunctionsProductName} readiness and liveness probe settings for the user-container and the queue-proxy container.

Author: Using the back-ticks for both the words.

* {FunctionsProductName} now supports {pipelines-shortname} versions from `1.10` till `1.14` (latest). The older versions of {pipelines-shortname} are no longer compatible with {FunctionsProductName}. 

> * {FunctionsProductName} now supports Go function container and it is now available as a Technology Preview (TP) feature.

Author: Done!

> * On-cluster function building, including using Pipelines-as-code is now supported on IBM zSystems (s390x) and IBM Power (ppc64le) on {rh-storage} storage only.

Reviewer 6: I am not entirely sure, but I guess we have the `{pac}` attribute for Pipelines-as-code.

Author: That is correct!

* You can now subscribe a function to a set of events by using the `func subscribe` command. This links your function to `CloudEvent` objects defined by your filters and enables automated responses.

> * The Knative Serving TLS encryption feature for internal traffic is now deprecated. It was a Tech Preview feature. The functionality with the `internal-encryption` configuration flag is no longer available and it will be replaced by new configuration flags in a future release.

Author: This feature is still not replaced yet but will be in future releases, so I used "it will be".

> * The secret filtering is enabled by default on the {ServerlessOperatorName} side. An environment variable, `ENABLE_SECRET_INFORMER_FILTERING_BY_CERT_UID=true`, is added by default to the `net-istio` and `net-kourier` controller pods.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* The secret filtering is enabled by default on the {ServerlessOperatorName} side. An environment variable `ENABLE_SECRET_INFORMER_FILTERING_BY_CERT_UID=true` is added by default to the `net-istio` and `net-kourier` controller pods.
```

* The `domain-mapping` and `domain-mapping-webhook` deployments functionality in the `knative-serving` namespace is now removed. They are now integrated with Serving Webhook and Serving Controller.

> * If you have set `spec.config.domain` in the KnativeServing Custom Resource (CR), the default external domain will no longer auto-populate the config-domain ConfigMap in the `knative-serving` namespace. You will now need to configure it manually to ensure accurate domain settings. 

Author: Okay, noted! 
Sure, to avoid "it", how about this?
"_Now, manual configuration is required to ensure accurate domain settings._"

> * If you have set `spec.config.domain` in the KnativeServing Custom Resource (CR), the default external domain will no longer auto-populate the config-domain ConfigMap in the `knative-serving` namespace. You will now need to configure it manually to ensure accurate domain settings. 

Reviewer 6: Personally, I would avoid the passive voice. Something like - "Now, you need to configure the `config-domain` config map manually to ensure accurate domain settings. "

> * You can now use the gRPC health probe for `net-kourier` deployments. The `net-kourier-controller` now uses a standard Kubernetes gRPC health probe for both readiness and liveness, replacing its previous use of exec and custom commands. This simplifies the process and aligns it with Kubernetes standards. Additionally, the timeoutSeconds value has been adjusted from 100 milliseconds to 1 second to ensure more reliable probe responses.

Author: Yes, it is CR. Sure, I will use "the Kourier Controller". Also, removed the sentence.

* The new trigger filters feature is now available as a Technology Preview. The new trigger filters are now enabled by default. It allows users to specify a set of filter expressions, where each expression evaluates to either true or false for each event.

* Knative Eventing now offers support for data in transit encryption (Eventing TLS) as a developer preview. You can configure Knative Eventing components to expose HTTPS addresses as well as add user-provided CA trust bundles to clients. 

* {ServerlessProductName} now supports custom OpenShift CA bundle injection for system components. For more information, see link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/networking/configuring-a-custom-pki.html#certificate-injection-using-operators_configuring-a-custom-pki[Configuring a custom PKI].

> * You can now use the Custom Metrics Autoscaler (KEDA) operator to autoscale Knative Eventing sources for Apache Kafka (KafkaSource), both up and down. This functionality is available as a developer preview, offering enhanced scalability and efficiency for Kafka-based event sources within Knative Eventing.

Author: Incorporated your suggestions:

- Changed it to "Apache Kafka source"
- Corrected the word "Operator" (Thank for that :) )
- Removed (KEDA)and keeping "Custom Metrics Autoscaler Operator" only 
- Regarding "....offering enhanced scalability.." sentence, I will keep it verified with peers

> * You can now explore the Knative Eventing monitoring dashboards directly within the *Observe* tab of the developer view in the OpenShift Developer Console. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* You can now explore the Knative Eventing monitoring dashboards directly within the *Observe* tab of the Developer view in the OpenShift Developer Console. 
```

> * The support for EventTypes `v1beta1` in Knative shipped is deprecated in {ServerlessProductName} 1.32. In {ServerlessProductName} 1.32, the Knative CLI utilizes the EventType `v1beta2` API to facilitate the new reference model. The `kn` is not backward compatible with the EventType API v1beta1 in previous releases, specifically limited to the `kn eventtypes` sub-commands group. Therefore, it is recommended to use a matching `kn` version for the best user experience.  

Reviewer 6: 1. Is "Eventtype" part of an API object? 
2. "The support for the `v1beta1` event type in Kn..." Can you confirm if this is correct?

> * The support for EventTypes `v1beta1` in Knative shipped is deprecated in {ServerlessProductName} 1.32. In {ServerlessProductName} 1.32, the Knative CLI utilizes the EventType `v1beta2` API to facilitate the new reference model. The `kn` is not backward compatible with the EventType API v1beta1 in previous releases, specifically limited to the `kn eventtypes` sub-commands group. Therefore, it is recommended to use a matching `kn` version for the best user experience.  

Author: Yes

[id="fixed-issues-1-32-0_{context}"]
== Fixed issues

> * The default CPU limit is now increased for `3scale-kourier-gateways` from `500m` to `1`. When more than 500 Knative Service instances are created, it could lead to readiness and liveness probe failures in the 3scale-kourier-gateways pod due to CPU resource exhaustion. This adjustment aims to mitigate such failures and ensure smoother operation even under heavy loads.

Author: Okay, noted!

[id="known-issues-1-32-0_{context}"]
== Known issues

> * Due to different mountpoint permissions, direct upload on a cluster build is not working on `ppc64le` and `s390x`.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
* Due to different mount point permissions, direct upload on a cluster build does not work on `ppc64le` and `s390x`.
```

Reviewer 6: mount point word usage: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#m

Reviewer 6: Maybe it's just me but direct upload of what does not work on `ppc64le` and `s390x`?

Author: Corrected! It is IBM zSystems (s390x) and IBM Power (ppc64le)

// Module included in the following assemblies
//
// * about/serverless-release-notes.adoc

:_content-type: REFERENCE
[id="serverless-rn-1-32-0_{context}"]
= Red Hat {ServerlessProductName} 1.32

{ServerlessProductName} 1.32 is now available. New features, updates, and known issues that pertain to {ServerlessProductName} on {ocp-product-title} are included in the following notes.

[id="new-features-1-32-0_{context}"]
== New features

* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative Serving 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative Eventing 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Kourier 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative (`kn`) CLI 1.11.
* {ServerlessProductName} now uses Knative for Apache Kafka 1.11.

> * The `kn func` CLI plug-in now uses `func` 1.11.

Reviewer 5: Where did you get the version for `func`? It's not in the YAML, so I would ask the team to specifically check this version.

Author: Yes, correct it is not in the YAML. Should I ask the team directly in the channel regarding the version?

Reviewer: The `func` is 1.13 in this release.

> * {ServerlessProductName} multi-tenancy with {SMProductShortName} is now available as a Technology Preview (TP) feature.

Reviewer 5: In this list, the following changes happened in previous releases (and were already announced there). Why do we include them here as well?

`OpenShift Serverless multi-tenancy with Service Mesh is now available as a Technology Preview (TP) feature.
`
`OpenShift Serverless can now be installed and used on single-node OpenShift.
`
`Pipelines-as-code for OpenShift Serverless Functions is now available as a Technology Preview (TP).
`
`The NamespacedKafka annotation, which was a Technology Preview (TP) feature, is now deprecated in favor of the standard Kafka broker with no data plane isolation.`
(Also duplicated in the Known issues. Even if this needed to be included, it only needs to be included in New features, which is the correct section for this type of announcement. Known issues should only contain non-intentional or unavoidable flaws. This issue was deprecated on purpose.)

`You can now configure a persistent volume claim (PVC) for an existing PersistentVolume object to use with OpenShift Serverless Functions and it is now available as a Developer Preview.
`
`The DomainMapping v1alpha1 custom resource definition (CRD) is now deprecated. Use v1beta1 CRD instead.
`
`Integrating Red Hat OpenShift Service Mesh with Serverless when Kourier is enabled is now deprecated. Use net-istio instead of net-kourier for Service Mesh integration.`

Author: Okay, noted! I have removed them now
